#summary Revision history of the Google Transit Feed Specification
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

This page documents the revisions that the [http://code.google.com/transit/spec/transit_feed_specification.htm Google Transit Feed Specification] has had over its history.
==== February 26, 2009 ====
  * Removed most of the Google-specific feed submission instructions, since there are many other applications that consume GTFS data at this point.
  * Fixed a broken link in the sidebar to Orange County OCTA's public feed. 
==== August 7, 2008 ====
  * Restored the stop_url field, which was accidentally omitted in the August 6 version
  * Added agency_phone to sample data
  * Added a mention of the data use agreement when submitting a feed to Google
== August 6, 2008 ==
  * Added transfers.txt file, allowing the feed publishers to provide hints on preferred transfer behavior ([http://groups.google.com/group/gtfs-changes/browse_thread/thread/d2090e9e2f37697b original proposal])
  * Added location_type and parent_station fields to stops.txt, allowing stop points to be grouped into stations ([http://groups.google.com/group/gtfs-changes/browse_frm/thread/49c180c99f5aff2c/f46db59beec6bdba original proposal])
  * Added agency_phone field for providing voice telephone number for an agency ([http://groups.google.com/group/gtfs-changes/browse_thread/thread/f08b6de7cb9ecaa0 original proposal])
  * Added "Testing Your Feeds" section mentioning open-source testing tools
  * Added clarifications about CSV format, agency_timezone, agency_lang, route_color, route_text_color, arrival_time, departure_time, calendar.txt vs. calendar_dates.txt, fare tables, and frequencies.txt
  * Added link to feed history document, and corrected some public feed links
  * Updated example images to depict the current Google Maps UI
  * Updated/fixed sample data in document
== February 29, 2008 ==
  * Added the stop_code field in stops.txt to allow for the specification of rider-facing stop codes ([http://groups.google.com/group/gtfs-changes/browse_thread/thread/93d03de5f6197b17 original proposal])
  * Clarified the descriptions of route_short_name and route_long_name in routes.txt
  * Clarified the descriptions of arrival_time and departure_time in stop_times.txt
  * Fixed typos in the Sample Data section
====November 20, 2007====
  * Clarified block_id description
  * Changed language to de-emphasize Google Transit (since non-Google applications are using GTFS, and transit routing is now an integrated feature of Google Maps), and to fix assorted typos
  * Updated example screenshots to reflect the presentation of GTFS fields in the current Google Maps UI
  * Updated the Google contact email address for transit data providers
  * Updated formatting
====October 5, 2007====
  * Changed stop_sequence and shape_pt_sequence to allow for any increasing non-negative integers
  * Clarified descriptions and fixed typos
==== May 31, 2007 ====
  * Updated page style, made HTML cleaner and more accessible
  * Added links to public feed examples and other useful sites
  * Removed examples from individual field descriptions
== April 9, 2007 ==
  * Added section on [http://code.google.com/transit/spec/transit_feed_specification.htm#transitFeedSubmit submitting a feed].
  * Added the [http://code.google.com/transit/spec/transit_feed_specification.htm#transitAgencyExample Demo Transit Agency Example] feed and live demo.
  * Added note that `calendar.txt` can be omitted if all the service dates are defined in `calendar_dates.txt`.
  * Made the `agency_id` field optional in feeds containing only one agency.  This allows existing feeds without `agency_id` to remain valid.
  * Added fuller specification of `agency_url`, `stop_url`, and `route_url`, and additional example values for those fields.
  * Added `6` (Gondola) and `7` (Funicular) as valid `route_type` values.

==== March 8, 2007 ====
Minor edit to move the `stop_url` field from `stop_times.txt`, where it was incorrectly specified in the Feb. 28 update, to `stops.txt`, where it belongs.

==== March 5, 2007 ====
Minor edit to clarify the description of the `route_long_name` field.

== February 28, 2007 ==
[http://headwayblog.com/ Headway] has a comprehensive writeup of the [http://headwayblog.com/2007/03/02/google-feed-spec-update-2007-02/ February 2007 changes].

== November 29, 2006 ==
  * Added support for trip shape information via `shapes.txt`
  * Clarified the definition of `stop_sequence`
  * Marked `pickup_type` and `drop_off_type` optional

== October 31, 2006 ==
  * Added support for fare information
  * Removed dates from individual file names
  * Changed the `route_type` value definitions
  * Allowed for multiple feed files to be posted at the same time, as long as their service periods didn't overlap
  * Fixed `block_id` in `trips.txt` so that it was correctly marked _Optional_
  * Noted that column headers _must_ be included

==== September 29, 2006 ====
Minor edit to fix a couple errors in the examples.

== September 25, 2006 ==
Initial version.

== Original Files ==
The raw HTML files for each version of the specification are available below for historical reference.

||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20090226.htm February 26, 2009]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20080807.htm August 7, 2008]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20080229.htm February 29, 2008]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20071120.htm November 20, 2007]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20071005.htm October 5, 2007]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20070531.htm May 31, 2007]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20070409.htm April 9, 2007]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20070308.htm March 8, 2007]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20070305.htm March 5, 2007]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20070228.htm February 28, 2007]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20061129.htm November 29, 2006]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20061031.htm October 31, 2006]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20060929.htm September 29, 2006]||
||[http://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/files/FeedSpecHistory/transit_feed_specification-20060925.htm September 25, 2006]||