#summary GoogleTransitDataFeed - new home of googletransitdatafeed.org
#labels Featured

== A new home for GoogleTransitDataFeed ==
This is the new home of the GoogleTransitDataFeed Wiki, formerly hosted on http://www.googletransitdatafeed.org.

GoogleTransitDataFeed offers a tool to transform transit data in the [http://www.transxchange.org.uk TransXChange] standard format to the [http://www.google.com/transit Google Transit] data feed format. 

TransXChange2GoogleTransit can be downloaded from this Google Code site. Installation instructions [GTDF_Installation here]. There is [GTDF_Manual a manual in this Wiki] that describes the use of TransXChange2GoogleTransit.

Additional transformation tools may be added in the future.

== Release Notes ==
=== v1.6.4 ===
==== New: Configuration file ====
As an option, a configuration file can be used in place of the multiple command line arguments. Usage: <pre>
	$ transxchange2GoogleTransit <transxchange input filename> -c <configuration file name>
</pre>
The original approach of multiple command line arguments remains unchanged. 
Mixing the new configuration file and the multiple command line arguments is not possible.

Each entry (line) in the configuration file must follow the following syntax:<pre>
	<argument>=<value>
</pre>
The following arguments are supported: <pre>
	url=<Agency URL>
	timezone=<List of timezones: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_zones>
	default-route-type=<0 - Tram, 1 - Subway, 2 - Rail, 3 - Bus, 4 - Ferry, 5 - Cable car, 6 - Gondola, 7 - Funicular>
	output-directory=<outout path>
	stopfile=<file name of optional stopfile name in NaPTAN CSV format>
	useagencyshortname=<true|false> (Default: false)
</pre>
Sample configuration file: <pre>
url=http://www.aagency.org
timezone=Syndey/Australia
default-route-type=3
output-directory=output
useagencyshortname=true
</pre>
==== New: Agency short name flag ====
As part of the introduction of the configuration file, a switch has been introduced that steers the converter to populates the GTFS 
agency name with the TransXChange OperatorShortName.
==== New: Support for inline coordinates ====
TransXChange files rely on coordinate lookups from the UK NaPTAN database. 
v1.6.4 supports inline coordinates (lat, lon) of StopPoints that include latitude and longitude data
==== Bugfix: Correct conversion of DaysOfOperation to calender_dates.txt exception_type: 1 in individual VehicleJourneys ====
In previous versions of transxchange2GoogleTransit, DaysOfOperation of a VehicleJourney were converted 
to exception_type 2. The correct exception_type is 1, which is now written to calender_dates.txt. DaysOfNoOperation continue to be 
written as exception_type 2.
Discussion: 
1.The primary vehicle to define OperatingProfiles is Service, which was not affected by this bug. 
In practice, a fraction of VehicleJourneys include individual calendar days for service inclusion or exclusion. 
2. This bug has not been reported. It was identified when validating a GTFS feed that was created with 
transxchange2GoogleTransit 1.6.3. The GTFS feed validator issued warnings for some Services in converted published datasets (Sydney) 
that flagged services without any active calendar dates. 
=== v1.6.3 ===

==== Read NaPTAN format CSV stop file as specified in Command Line (CLI)====
A Command Line Interface (CLI) argument has been added to feed a NaPTAN format CSV stop file. TransXChange2GoogleTransit accepts Version 1 NaPTAN format files.

==== Java heap size increased ====
The tXCh2GT batch files (.bat and .sh) have been updated to increase the heap size to 512MB to accommodate the added memory needed to hold the regular UK NaPTAN stop records.

==== Bank holidays revised ====
This has been a long standing defect. v1.6.3 now provides the dynamic creation of (transit) bank holidays England and Wales for the years a service operates.
  * GoodFriday - the Friday before Easter Sunday.
  * EasterMonday - the Monday after Easter Sunday.
  * MayDay - the first Monday in May.
  * SpringBank - the last Monday in May.
  * LateSummerHolidayNotScotland - the last Monday in August.
  * ChristmasDay - 25th Dec.
  * BoxingDay - 26th Dec.
  * NewYearsDay - 1st Jan.


==== Expose parse exceptions ====
Send trace dump to console in case GTDF crashes when input files are parsed.

==== GWT_Transxchange2GoogleTransit dropped ==== 
Not included in releases any longer.