#summary TransXChange2GoogleTransit: Download and Installation

== Transxchange2GoogleTransit Installation ==
A version of Transxchange2GoogleTransit is released as a zip archive and as a tarball. Zip is probably the first choice on Windows, while Unix and GNU Linux systems are likely better served by downloading a tarball. The content of zip archive and tarball is identical. Zip and tarball are only two different forms of packaging.

=== System requirements ===
Java 1.4.2 or later is required. Download Java [http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp here] if this is not the case.

=== Installing The Runtime Release ===
Transxchange2GoogleTransit is a batch program that runs from a Command Line Interface (CLI) or a batch script.

==== Checking Java ====
First check if Java 1.4.2 or later is running on your system. Open a CLI (Command Line Interface) like a Command Prompt ("DOS Box") on Windows, or a terminal session on Unix, and enter
<br/>
<pre>java -version</pre>
If this command results in an error message, Java needs to be installed. If the version does not show "1.4.2" or higher, Java needs to be updated.

==== Download And Unpack ====
Download the runtime release of TransXChange2GoogleTransit, and unpack the release file (zip or tar). In case of Windows, the files zip archive can be extracted interactively. The ZIP program is built into Windows starting with Windows XP. On other operating system,  tar is the likely choice. The tarball of TransXChange2GoogleTransit unpacks with the following command:
<br/>
<pre>tar xvf <filename></pre>
where filename is the filename of the release, e.g.
<br/>
<pre>tar xvf TransXChange2GoogleTransit_1.6.4.tar</pre>
for the tarball of version 1.6.4 of the TransXChange2GoogleTransit program.

==== Test the installation ====
In a CLI session, change the directory to the program's directory, e.g.
<br/>
<pre>cd TransXChange2GoogleTransit_1.6.4</pre>
Start the program with the following command:
<br/>
<pre>java -jar dist/transxchange2GoogleTransit.jar</pre>
When TransXChange2GoogleTransit is installed correctly, the following message is displayed :
<br/>
<pre>transxchange2GoogleTransit 1.6.4
Please refer to LICENSE file for licensing information

Usage: $ transxchange2GoogleTransit <transxchange input filename> -
         <url> <timezone> <default route type> <output-directory> [<stopfile>]

         <timezone>: Please refer to 
             http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_zones
         <default route type>:
             0 - Tram, 1 - Subway, 2 - Rail, 3 - Bus, 4 - Ferry, 5 - Cable car, 6 - Gondola, 7 - Funicular</nowiki></pre>