#summary A list of other software that read and write GTFS files

GTFS is used by several non-Google applications:

  * [http://timetablepublisher.org/ TimeTablePublisher] can take GTFS feeds and format them into static schedule tables for online and print applications.
  * [http://graphserver.sourceforge.net/ Graphserver] is an open-source transit (and more) routing engine, with support for Google Transit Feed Spec feeds
  * GIRO's HASTUS transit scheduling software has a [http://www.giro.ca/en/press-room/press-releases/google-transit-200612.htm GTFS export option].
  * Trapeze [http://www.trapezegroup.com/solutions/pt_google.php offers a GTFS export tool] for their Trapeze FX schedule management software.
  * Next Insight Transportation Software offers a [http://nextinsight.com/products/ Google Transit Feed Creator]
  * Trillum Solutions (formally Transit Info Solutions) offers custom-designed transit websites and a web-based schedule manager with [http://www.trilliumtransit.com/services/ Google Transit export]
  * [http://www.merakas.lt Merakas] is a Lithuanian company whose [http://www.merakas.lt/en/pikas/index.html PikasPHP] transit software can read and write GTFS.  (An example deployment for Vilnius, Lithuania can be seen [http://www.marsrutai.lt/vilnius/?a=p.routes&transport_id=bus&t=xhtml&l=en here].)
  * [http://www.avego.com/ui/futurefleet.action Avego Future Fleet] has [http://groups.google.com/group/transit-developers/browse_thread/thread/318cd6a84f432718 announced] GTFS import and export for free
  * Mentor Streets® Schedule includes a one-click GTFS export tool: http://www.mentoreng.com/products/streets-transit/streets-schedule/schedule.html
  * [http://code.google.com/p/gtfs-osm-sync/ GTFS-OpenStreetMap Sync (GO-Sync)], an open-source software tool that synchronizes GTFS datasets with !OpenStreetMap
  * [http://www.locationaware.usf.edu/ongoing-research/travel-assistance-device/ The Travel Assistance Device (TAD)], a mobile application for GPS-enabled cell phones which helps bus riders successfully get to their destination through real-time navigation prompts such as "Pull the Cord Now!"
  * Stoply shows timetables of nearby transit services. Displays GTFS  for mobile browsers. https://github.com/timob/stoply
  * GTFS, graphserver are used by [http://www.opentripplanner.org OpenTripPlanner], a free and open source multimodal trip planner.
  * [http://www.transiteditor.com/ TransitEditor] was created with the objective making managing a GTFS feed quick, easy and low cost. It may import a valid GTFS feeds to make getting started easier. There is a 20 day free test period.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/transitdatafeeder/ TransitDataFeeder] is an open source web-based tool for creating GTFS.
  * [http://www.connexionz.us Connexionz] is an ITS solutions provider with references across the US, South America, Europe and Australasia. They provide GTFE feeds for all its customers as standard, with the option of them being provided access to a GTFE real time data feed at no additional cost.


Here are some libraries to help software developers handle GTFS files:

  * [http://code.google.com/p/googletransitdatafeed This project] has Python code for reading and writing GTFS.
  * [http://github.com/perkinsms/Perl-GTFS A set of perl modules for dealing with GTFS]. Uses DBI to access the raw data
  * [http://code.google.com/p/onebusaway/ OneBusAway] has a [https://github.com/OneBusAway/onebusaway-gtfs-modules/wiki GTFS module] written in Java.


See also the [http://headwayblog.com/wiki/index.php?title=Category:GTFS_Consumers GTFS Consumers], [http://headwayblog.com/wiki/index.php?title=Category:GTFS_Exporters GTFS Exporters] and [http://headwayblog.com/wiki/index.php?title=Category:GTFS_Service GTFS Services] categories at [http://headwayblog.com/wiki].