#summary How to do a transitfeed release

= Prerequisites =

You need a Microsoft Windows machine for testing and BuildingPythonWindowsExecutables; that subpage also contains help how to install Python, utilities, and a Subversion client under Windows.

Get access to update the [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/transitfeed PyPI transitfeed] package.

Some familiarity with subversion tags and branches may be useful. [http://svnbook.red-bean.com/en/1.5/svn.branchmerge.html Version Control with Subversion] is quite good.

= Steps =

== Check that trunk is ready ==

Make sure {{{transitfeed.__version__}}} is set to the new version in trunk and all tests pass.

== Make a branch ==

{{{svn cp -m "make version 1.2.3 branch" https://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/trunk https://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/branches/transitfeed-1.2.3}}}

== Run tests ==

Get a clean copy with {{{svn export https://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/branches/transitfeed-1.2.3}}} and run the tests in Linux and Windows with the nosetests command. 

Manually start the schedule viewer (using test/data/good_feed.zip, for example), click on a stop (an info window of next departures should open), click on a trip and its shape should be displayed with stop times. Try it in a variety of browsers, at least IE and Firefox.

Test {{{feedvalidator.py}}} on a large body of feeds to verify that it does not produce spurious error messages on good data (warnings may be acceptable).

== Create a change log ==

Find the revision of the last release with {{{svn ls -v https://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/branches}}}. Display a log of changes with {{{svn log -r xxx:HEAD https://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/python}}}. Use this to list the changes on TransitFeedDistribution. Subversion doesn't do a great job of tracking merge history so some detective work may be needed if your branch and trunk have diverged.

== Windows binary build ==

Build the pyexe files using the instructions at BuildingPythonWindowsExecutables.

== Build and upload files ==

Using the exported tree build the source tar ball in unix with {{{python setup.py sdist}}}. Upload it to this project and set the tags {{{Type-Source}}} and {{{OpSys-All}}}.  Send an announcement to the googletransitfeed group.

== Finalize the release ==

Freeze the release branch with a Subversion tag:
{{{svn cp -m "make version x.y.z tag" https://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/branches/transitfeed-1.2.3 https://googletransitdatafeed.googlecode.com/svn/tags/transitfeed-1.2.3}}}

Note: once you have created the release's Subversion tag, older versions of feedvalidator will tell users to upgrade.

Move the label Featured from the previous to this release.

Update PyPI with {{{python setup.py register sdist}}}.